how's it going guys welcome back to the
Patriot DIY channel in this video I'm
going to be showing you how to add LED
back lighting to your
[Music]
shelves all right guys if you have a
home bar or some shelves at home that
you want to add some back lighting to
this is the video for you now I built
these upper cabinets and shelves in a
previous video if you want to check that
out I'll put a link to that right here
at the top of the screen I love the way
this looks and it fits perfectly here in
my man cave but today I want to add some
back lighting to these shelves this is
going to be a pretty simple project that
almost anybody can do and I'm going to
show you step by step how I'm going to
do this but first guys if you haven't
done it yet make sure you hit that
subscribe button down below hit that
notification Bell and give us a thumbs
up the main thing you're going to need
for this project is going to be your LED
strip lighting now you can use any LED
strip lights that you want this just
happens to be the ones that I picked up
these are off Amazon and I will have a
link to these in the description below
now I chose this one specifically for
this project for a couple reasons first
because of the shape of the strip itself
it gives me a nice wide surface here on
the side to attach it to the back of my
shelf and it's going to direct all the
light upwards which is exactly what we
want for the back of our shelves now one
issue with a lot of LED strip lights is
you don't get a constant stream of light
you're going to see a DOT of light light
where every little LED is and I chose
these specifically because the LEDs are
diffused and it gives you a nice
constant stream of light you can see
here that you don't see each individual
dot of the LEDs you just get a long
continuous light now I think these are
going to be great for the back Lighting
on our shelves but because this is so
flexible this could be used to create
any type of design on your wall you can
spell out letters with it or anything
you want to do now with that said let's
get everything taken down off of these
shelves and get to
work once I get everything taken down
off of these shelves I can remove them
from the wall and get ready to install
my
lights all right guys so we have a few
different options for how we can attach
our LED lights to our shelves the first
option would be just to stick the LED
strip to the back of the Shelf like this
using either double-sided tape or hot
glue and as long as you have a gap
between your shelf and the wall this
would work out fine another option would
be to use these little clips that came
with the LEDs you just screw these down
to the board and then the LED fits right
into that little clip for my application
the way I would do that is I would
attach the LED strip directly to the top
of the Shelf then I'd cut another narrow
strip of wood and attach that in front
of my LEDs that way it hides them from
view but still allows the light to shine
on the wall behind the Shelf the next
option would be just to cut or route a
channel directly into the top or bottom
of the Shelf whichever direction you
want your light we'll cut that channel
the same width as our LED strip and then
it'll just fit down into that Groove
like an inlay it'll be perfectly hidden
but still shine up in the direction that
we want it I think that'll give us the
cleanest possible look and it's pretty
simple to do as long as you have a table
saw or a router that you can route that
Channel with so I think that's what I'm
going to do let me know what you guys
think in the comment section below which
method would you use for attaching these
to your
shelves first I need to set the height
of my table saw blade to just a little
more than the height of the LED strip
and then I'll run my shelf through the
table saw cutting a Groove all the way
[Music]
down now this groove is obviously not
wide enough for the light to fit into
yet so I need to move my table saw fence
over and then run the board back through
widening that
[Music]
Groove I'm going to keep doing that a
little a little bit at a time test
fitting the light as I go until I get a
perfect
fit now you are able to cut this light
at designated spots along the strip so
I'm going to test fit this light and
mark the length that I need and then cut
it down to Sid
to attach this permanently I'm going to
run a bead of hot glue down that Groove
and then fit this light down into place
then I'll press it down to make sure it
sits just below the top surface of the
Shelf you can see now that this gives us
a nice clean professional
look only thing left to do now is to
reinstall our shelves on the wall and
Route our
wires on the bottom shelf I've cut a
small Notch onto the end of the board
and I'm going to be running this wire up
under my
cabinet then on this middle shelf I've
cut a notch into the back of the cabinet
so I can route the wires behind it and
then down to our
Outlet all right guys so now we've got
our LED strips inlaid into our shelves
we've got our shelves back installed and
i r the wires back behind my upper
cabinets down and behind my refrigerator
now these light kits do come with a
little touch sensor switch that you can
put in line with the lights this is
going to do a couple things for you you
can adjust the brightness level you can
also turn it on and off with this switch
here but what I decided to do instead
was to plug it into one of these
wireless remote control Outlets you just
plug your lights into the receiver and
then you have this handy dandy little
wall switch that you can mount anywhere
you want to and it works exactly like a
remote so all you have to do
is and there you go now this same switch
controls my neon signs and my string
lights that I have up along the ceiling
so with just one click I can turn all
that on at the same time now I love the
way this looks guys I love that light
shining up now let's get the stuff back
up on these shelves and take a look at
the final product
[Music]
w
all right guys that's it for how to add
back lighting to your shelves I hope
this video helped you out if you guys
have any other methods that you guys
would use to do this make sure you let
us know in the comment section below I
love how this turned out guys I thought
these shelves look good already but this
just added a whole another level now
don't forget guys I will have links to
all the products we used in the
description below if you want to do a
project like this for yourself so thanks
for watching guys please like share and
subscribe and we'll see you next time
[Music]